---
date: 2020-03-16
title: Pandemic
tags:
  - coronavirus
---
Over the last month or so, the world has changed. In my little town on the south coast of England, things changed gradually. Then they changed a lot, all at once. I'm frightened in a way that I've never been, all because of an invisible new enemy. 

I wanted to write something about this time and how our small family is faring. Of course, we live in a wealthy western country. We're the lucky ones. I'll try and keep that in mind when describing our situation.

## The beginning

Throughout February, we heard increasing reports of a new flu-like virus spreading in China. I wasn't particularly alarmed. SARS, MERS, Swine Flu and Ebola had all appeared and then disappeared. None of them had any direct impact on my life.

In early March new posters started appearing in my office. "Wash your hands more often for 20 seconds". I felt some alarm, but I'm usually pretty good at handwashing anyway. There was more chat amongst friends and colleges about Coronavirus.

On 7th March, Katie and I visited Highdown Vinyard to talk through plans for my upcoming 40th birthday party. I asked about what would happen if the government banned large gatherings. It was an off-the-cuff comment. I didn't think it was going to happen. 

On Monday 16th, HMRC asked us to work from home. Later that week, a few people had planned to get together for my friend's surprise 40th. Even though restaurants and bars were still open, I decided to postpone it. Government advice was to avoid large groups, so it felt like the right thing to do.

On 23rd March, Boris Johnson announced a full lockdown. In less than a month, Covid19 has significantly changed or lives.

## Stay home. Protect the NHS. Save lives.

The lockdown means that each person in the UK should:

* Only go outside for food, health reasons or work (but only if they cannot work from home)
* When they're out, stay 2 meters away from other people at all times
* Wash their hands as soon as they get home

For our family, it means that we're now spending much more time with each other. This has been joy and hardship. I have to give credit to Katie, who does a much better job of holding it together than I do. She's taking care of RooTwo who's 6 months and homeschooling/entering Roo while I work.

I'm working from our cabin at the bottom of our garden. I feel incredibly lucky to be one of the few who's managed to carry on working in much the same way as before. It's a lovely place to be. I have a standing desk, plants and a whole garden to look out on.

Speaking of the garden, we've spent a lot of time outside. Of course, we've been sticking to our one exercise per day allowance - but the garden gives us